# Airflow's Core Components


### 1. Web Interface (UI):
- It allows you to view, manage, and monitor your workflows through a web browser.

### 2. Scheduler:
- It determines when tasks should run.  
- It ensures your tasks run at the right time and in the correct order.

### 3. Metadata Database
- It's like a Airflow memory.
- This is the database(commonly PostgreSQL) that stores information about your tasks and their status.
- It keeps track of all the important details about your workflows


### 4. Triggering:
- The trigger is a little bit special because it is responsible for managing deferrable tasks.
- Tasks tasks that wait for external events.
- It allows airflow to efficiently handle tasks that depend on external factors without blocking other processes.
- To illustrate that, imagine that you are waiting for an important email before starting a task.
- The trigger is like your assistant, who keeps an eye on your inbox and notifies you when the email 
arrives, allowing you to focus on other work in the meantime.


### 5. Executor

- It manages the execution of your tasks, deciding whether to run them in sequence or in parallel, and 
on which system you can think of the executor as a traffic controller, just as a traffic controller
decides which cars go when to optimize traffic flow.


### 6. Worker

- Worker is a process that actually perform the tasks they do the actual work defined in your tasks.
- They pull tasks from the work queue, execute them, and report the results back to the Scheduler.


**Worker executes your tasks, The executor does not execute your tasks.**

### 7. Queue

- The queue is a list of tasks waiting to be executed.
- It helps to manage the order of task execution, especially when there are many tasks to run.
